well how do you hear it and have people
Isabel again so tonight we're going to
do kind of a biography a little get to
know somebody a little bit we're gonna
do it because of recent events and a
statement that he made that I think the
West is miss reading I think they're
miss reading his true intentions and I
believe that he may be poised to become
a household name and in the u.s. because
of that so this isn't great man theory
at work understand we're gonna be
talking about one person but he's
representative of a whole lot of people
he's somebody that's been around a very
long time that is just making moves that
is going to elevate his position I think
okay so who is he who is he's cleric
he's a preacher he's a very very
powerful cleric in Iraq and his name is
Matata al Sadr some people right now are
going why is that sound familiar
either he's going I remember him okay so
his family very powerful highly regarded
some of his older family members were
taken out by Saddam he has a lot of
support and a lot of people following
him he's along the way over the years
has flirted with secularism communism
nationalism currently he's positioned
himself as a nationalist he's really a
populist at heart he has power he wants
more he ran something called the Mahdi
during the u.s. occupation and now those
people that were like when it sounds for
me I'm like oh yeah they were active in
a place called seder city they also were
active in other places they ran
supplies to the Sunnis in Fallujah they
had a newspaper got shut down for
inciting violence there they were very
powerful now they officially disbanded
in 2008 so that that kind of gives you
some background on who he is now from
there he's received since then received
a more religious training became a
little more political a little more
shrewd a little smarter over the last
month month and a half or so there have
been demonstrations in Iraq about
corruption about the US presence about a
lot of things his guys have been there
they recently pulled out and almost
immediately Iraqi security services went
in and broke up the protests you can
read that one of two ways his guys are
tough enough to keep Iraqi security
services in check or they were
coordinating and cooperating the answer
is yes probably both so he pulled his
guys to go to his own protest where he
said that he wanted to do things
peacefully and it was the an end to
resistance that's how it's being framed
in a lot of Western outlets some are
getting it right most aren't
and sure enough he said that an into
resistance and that's in the statement
however her omitting the word temporary
seems like it could be an error his
demands haven't changed say removal of
US forces closure of the bases closure
of the airspace to warplanes and
intelligence-gathering operations and
but does allow for diplomatic missions
from the u.s. that that didn't change
and he said he wanted to exhaust all
peaceful options not that he was
throwing in the towel
I think the piece of the puzzle that is
being overlooked is that three weeks ago
that disbanded armed organization
he called for them to be reactivated
with that piece of the puzzle in mind
his guys have been a protest where
people are upset and disaffected with
the government what have they been doing
recruiting they've been recruiting and
they're now at the point where the Mahdi
are gonna be reactivated this does not
seem like a call for peace in the sense
that he's given up this seems like he's
regrouping he's getting his guys up to
speed I have no doubt that he's sincere
he would like to do this peacefully and
he's giving the u.s. a great out he's
handing the president a statement that
says we want to do this peacefully we
want a timetable for US withdrawal which
could I mean it makes it look as though
the president's diplomacy for lack of a
better word over there worked it didn't
but it could be read that way if the
president takes advantage of it if he
doesn't I have no doubt that his guys
will resume active resistance
I think he's setting the stage for right
now so Matata al-sadr will probably
become a household name we'll we'll
paint him as a bad guy and he is no
doubt he has done a lot of bad stuff but
he is at the head of a very large
movement he can mobilize a lot of people
he has had that support very very long
time the only time you saw people defect
from him even in their darkest times was
when he issued a statement saying that
looters could keep what they looted as
long as they gave his guys a cut that
upset people
and some of them left but other than
that he has maintained support for
decades for decades and he seems to be
positioning himself to resume operations
now the obvious question is should the
US withdrawal us never should have been
there never should have been there and
and yes they should withdraw they should
have was wrong we should have withdrawn
in 2004 if we were gonna go there we
should have got out early there's no
reason for us to be there now there's
really not our main reasons for being
there as far as perform policy well they
changed when Trump sold out the Kurds
from that point forward
we've got nothing there we really don't
and he is handing this administration in
a gift-wrapped package an easy-out
that's gonna make it look like they want
but we don't know if the president will
take it anyway it's just a thought y'all
have a good night